[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory.
And we have given you
some incredible programs
over the years.
But what you're about
to see in this program
will stun you because of
what it is and how it works.
Our special guest
is Lyn Buchanan.
He's with the military.
He was a remote viewer.
Years later he decided to
continue his remote viewing
practice into what is now called
controlled remote viewing.
Lyn, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>LYN BUCHANAN: Well,
thank you for inviting me.
>>NOORY: What an
exciting endeavor
you have had over the years.
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, listen, when
I went into the military unit
and they read me on as
to what they really do,
I thought I was on
"Candid Camera," you know?
I thought this was a joke.
It was the most exciting,
fascinating part
of the military I have
ever seen in my life.
>>NOORY: You have
got to tell us, first
of all, what remote viewing is.
Now you and I have talked over
the years, not only on "Coast
to Coast," but we've done a
"Beyond Belief" program before.
But a lot of people want to know
exactly what is remote viewing.
>> BUCHANAN: OK.
Basically the military
took on the project
of getting psychic spies, but
they didn't want psychics.
And so they went out to
Stanford Research Institute,
they did a study,
and they found out
that a part of your
subconscious mind
connects with whatever is
psychic, whatever psychic is.
But your subconscious doesn't
talk to your conscious mind.
So they developed a methodology
of interview and report
so that your conscious mind
can interview your subconscious
and report what it says.
They taught it for
basically psychic spying.
The fact is, your
subconscious knows
why you do those things
you don't want to do
and why you don't do
the thing-- you know.
And it knows
everything about you.
And so the tools
and the methodology
works for everything
that's in your sub--
it knows where your car
keys are, and so on.
>>NOORY: Did we
follow up on what
the Soviets were doing first?
Is that how all
this really started?
>> BUCHANAN: We did it as a
reaction to what the Soviets
were doing.
When Hitler lost the war, Great
Britain, France, and the US
took all the nuclear
scientists, rocket scientists,
and all that.
He had a huge project.
>>NOORY: Operation
Paperclip, right?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
Hitler also had a project called
Doktor Gruenbaum, green tree,
which he was fascinated
with the Kabbalah.
Nobody wanted it.
Russia took it.
And in the '60s, the Soviets
were getting our classified
information like crazy.
One of their people
defected and brought
with him documentation
that showed what they were
doing with their psychic spies.
And everybody here
had a laugh about it.
But then they read the documents
and they said hey, this works.
>>NOORY: There's
something to this.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
The spy group is different
from the rest of the military.
Anything that works
they're going to do it.
And so they decided
OK, we're going
to find out how to do this.
And so they went out
to Stanford Research,
had them do a study
on how this works.
And a man named Ingo Swann.
>>NOORY: Know the guy.
God rest his soul, but
he was one of the best.
>> BUCHANAN: He was, yeah.
He developed a protocol
for the conscious mind
to interview the subconscious
and report the information
back.
>>NOORY: So when they
got the data, when
they were able to start
getting information,
I mean, they believed that
something to this, right?
>> BUCHANAN: They knew there
was something to it, yeah.
The first remote viewer was
a guy named Joe McMoneagle.
>>NOORY: And he's
still doing it.
He's still out there
doing it, as you are too.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
I don't think he's
teaching it, but he's
doing it professionally.
>>NOORY: So you have
since switched now--
now that you're out
of the military--
into what is called
controlled remote viewing.
Now what is that?
>> BUCHANAN: OK.
It was called co-ordinate
remote viewing.
And when it came
out to the public--
see, they gave his coordinates.
They didn't want to tell
us what the target was
because that would kick in
your logic and everything else.
So they would say,
for example, this
is Project 970304, question 3.
What's the answer?
That was it.
So using coordinates like that,
when it came out to the public,
psychics started using
coordinates and calling
it coordinate remote viewing.
Well, it wasn't.
So Ingo said, hey, the one word
they won't take is controlled.
So he called it
controlled remote viewing,
and that's what it's
been called ever since.
>>NOORY: Specifically,
what is that?
>> BUCHANAN: OK.
That is that you control
the remote viewing.
>>NOORY: As opposed to the
remote viewing doing it to you.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And one of the complaints
that psychics have
is that they're at its mercy.
Well, in controlled
remote viewing,
you remote view
in a set pattern.
You sit down at a certain place.
You do a certain procedure.
You get the information.
You finish.
You get up, and you're finished.
And so it's all under
your own control.
And so many people hear
controlled remote viewing
and they think, oh, the
viewer is controlled
by all these protocols.
No, the protocols are
there so the viewing
is controlled by the viewer.
Fantastic.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing tool.
It really is.
I've practiced it because
of people like you who
have given me some pointers.
I haven't taken your course
yet, but I want to do that.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah, drop by.
In 1980, Lyn, there was a UFO
case in the United Kingdom.
It was called Rendlesham.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- In December 1980, United
States military personnel
located at the twin bases
of RAF Bentwaters and RAF
Woodbridge in Suffolk, England
observed strange lights
and one or more UFOs in
the adjoining woodland,
known as Rendlesham Forest
and over the military bases.
At approximately 3:00
AM on December 26,
security personnel on patrol
near the east gate of RAF
Woodbridge observed
unusual lights
which appeared to be
descending into the forest.
Upon leaving the base and
entering Rendlesham forest
to investigate, several
military personnel
observed a metallic,
triangular-shaped object
with colored lights which
had landed in a clearing.
Two of the men approached the
object, and one of the men
was able to touch it.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: This is an
amazing case, Lyn,
because so many US
military personnel that
were stationed out there in the
United Kingdom witnessed this,
touched the craft,
as a matter of fact.
Some have gotten
sick over the years.
>> BUCHANAN: That's true.
>>NOORY: Government
says, oh, no.
Has nothing to do
with that case.
You remote viewed it.
You took a quick look at it.
Tell me, what did you do?
>> BUCHANAN: As always, I
got encrypted coordinates,
so I had no idea
I was viewing it.
And I was viewing one
specific night of that,
I found out later.
>>NOORY: Of the several nights.
>> BUCHANAN: Of
the several nights.
And so that's the only
one I have viewed.
But during that, they had
me describe the craft.
And then they had me
go inside the craft--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>> BUCHANAN: And
draw the floor plans,
draw the internal plans
and everything else.
>>NOORY: What did it look like?
And what did the
inside look like?
>> BUCHANAN: What I got in the
beginning was just a control
room, a control panel just like
you would expect for any flight
deck.
>>NOORY: Did it look
out of this world?
>> BUCHANAN: Pretty much.
Yeah.
The entire thing was empty.
I went ahead and went
through the rest of the ship.
The entire ship was empty.
>>NOORY: Like it was a
drone craft of some sort.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah, but I
went into the computer.
I can read computers.
I went into the computer and
found that it was autonomous.
It wasn't controlled by anybody.
It was autonomous.
And it was looking
for something,
and several things in fact.
And when it found
it, when it found
one of those things it was
looking for, a program to look
for, it would sort of radio
back to somebody and say,
I found it.
And then later they would
know exactly where to come.
>>NOORY: Lyn, describe
what the craft
looks like from the outside.
>> BUCHANAN: From the outside
it was shiny, of course.
And it did have a sort of
pointed area on one side.
>>NOORY: Did it look like
anything we had at the time?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, no.
>>NOORY: No way.
>> BUCHANAN: No.
And it was, of course, rounded
on top, rounded on bottom.
>>NOORY: How big--
>> BUCHANAN: Flattened.
>>NOORY: Do you think it was?
>> BUCHANAN: It seemed
to me, on the outside,
like it was maybe about five
or six times the size of a car.
Now when I got on the inside,
of course, if they were smaller,
it would look--
I would have shrunk to that.
But on the inside it
looked pretty big.
There were
compartments and things
like that, and
this control panel,
which was totally unmanned.
>>NOORY: And as you said
you were looking at it,
it was empty.
So you didn't see any
extraterrestrial beings.
No, I didn't.
>> BUCHANAN: Nothing like that.
However, it was lit
on the inside too.
>>NOORY: OK.
Are you looking at things in
real time when you remote view?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So wherever
you might have
been, remote viewing
this craft at that time,
it was there at
that time, correct?
>> BUCHANAN: Yes.
Now one of the things about
controlled remote viewing
is that your conscious mind
works best present time.
Your subconscious mind can go
anywhere in time and space.
>>NOORY: Right.
>> BUCHANAN: And so
you give the command,
move to that time
and that place.
Now what am I seeing here?
And your conscious mind says,
oh, now I'm seeing, and so on.
>>NOORY: So if the ETs might
have been out of the craft
at the time that you
were remote viewing,
that's entirely
possible, isn't it?
>> BUCHANAN: That's
entirely possible.
That's not what I got, but
that's entirely possible.
>>NOORY: Do you think it
might have been a time
machine, our time machine?
>> BUCHANAN: I don't think so.
First of all, let
me make this clear,
because I've got a government
to contend with here.
>>NOORY: I bet you do.
>> BUCHANAN: I do.
We were never officially
tasked with ETs or UFOs.
>>NOORY: During
the entire project.
>> BUCHANAN: During
the entire project,
we were never officially
tasked with those.
>>NOORY: Are you telling
me something I should know?
Like, you're stressing
the word officially here.
>> BUCHANAN: I'm stressing
the word officially.
We were asked to do
things, special favors
for different Congressmen.
>>NOORY: It's like somebody,
like a president saying
to one of his staff members,
someone rid me of this problem.
And then he walks away.
>> BUCHANAN: And walks away.
And so we had done a lot of ETs.
And I never found one
that had any indicator
that it was a time machine.
It's--
>>NOORY: Maybe, though?
Can you rule it out?
>> BUCHANAN: I can't
rule it out, no.
>>NOORY: In your opinion, based
on that one remote viewing
session--
>> BUCHANAN: For Rendlesham.
>>NOORY: For Rendlesham.
What do you think this was?
>> BUCHANAN: I think it was
just a drone that was automated
to go find things, and
a drone phone home.
>>NOORY: Why there, Lyn?
Why Rendlesham?
>> BUCHANAN: I have no idea.
I don't know what
it was looking for,
but evidently it found
it at Rendlesham Forest.
>>NOORY: Our dear
friend Ingo Swann wrote
a book called Penetration.
It was about his work
in remote viewing,
about looking at structures on
the far side of the moon which
were absolutely incredible.
>> BUCHANAN: They're there.
Yeah, they're there.
>>NOORY: While you've been
remote viewing in your career,
have you ever been
tasked with looking
at the so-called
secret space program?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
Many times.
>>NOORY: And what
have we seen there?
>> BUCHANAN: We've seen that
we need to change the question
to another subject.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>> BUCHANAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: It seems like, Lyn--
and I've known you for years--
it seems like there are
some subjects that you
feel to be taboo to talk about.
Why is that?
I don't want to put you on the
spot, but you're in the spot.
>> BUCHANAN: I still stay pretty
current on what's classified
and what's not because when
the project was declassified,
it was effectively declassified.
That's government
speak for we're not
going to declassify
this, but we're
going to look the other way.
>>NOORY: It means, Lyn,
keep your mouth shut.
>> BUCHANAN: It means that if
we ever decide to quit looking
the other way and you have
told classified information,
then we're going to get you.
>>NOORY: All right.
Well, let me ask you
this a different way.
I can't ask you if
you were tasked, then,
to look at the
secret space program.
>> BUCHANAN: Sure, you can ask.
>>NOORY: You won't tell me.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Are there other
things going on out there
that the public just
doesn't know about?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
I believe in
security, I really do.
I believe in secrets.
I believe that it's taken
way beyond what it should,
and I believe there's a lot that
the public needs to know about.
The government says
when in doubt, classify.
That's official.
>>NOORY: And you live
by that rule still.
>> BUCHANAN: No, I really don't.
>>NOORY: Then tell
me everything.
>> BUCHANAN: If
they classify it,
I'm not going to talk about it.
>>NOORY: Which is
the case for this.
>> BUCHANAN: Which is
the case a lot of times.
There are things that I
think should be talked about.
But I'm not going to jail.
So--
>>NOORY: As an American--
>> BUCHANAN: I
try to be careful.
>>NOORY: As an American,
are you glad that there
is a secret program going on?
>> BUCHANAN: There are
many secret programs going
on, and some of
them I'm very glad.
Some of them are scary.
And I'm not sure they
should be going on.
It's not like there
is a secret program.
There are many secret programs
going on, some of them
extremely good.
Some of them, eh, and
some of them are scary.
>>NOORY: One of our hosts
for Gaia is Corey Goode,
and Corey has talked
about the secret space
program in the past.
And he comes full out,
without any concern
and regards for himself,
and says there's
something that's been going on.
It's ongoing, and it's been
going on for a long, long time.
I would guess
you've been tasked,
or you were tasked to see
if the Soviets, at the time,
had something in place too.
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, sure.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: And did they?
>> BUCHANAN: We were spies.
Well, the US doesn't have spies.
Bad people have spies.
We have intelligence
collection agencies.
>>NOORY: Operatives.
>> BUCHANAN: Operatives, yeah.
They have things.
Every government has secrets.
>>NOORY: The late Ingo Swann,
in his book Penetration,
looked at structures on
the far side of the moon.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
about structures
that could be on Mars.
- We do have these 1970s Mariner
9 images that are untouched
and undoctored
showing this, again,
Martian airport-like
structure on Mars.
And you can see here,
this particular structure
has been featured
in presentations
all over the world.
>>NOORY: So Lyn, in
your remote viewing,
have you seen anything on Mars?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
There is a phenomenon in CRV
where you get so engrossed
in the target that the room
around you gets totally ignored
and you cannot tell that
you're not at the target.
The first time that
ever happened to me
was a target on Mars.
And I stood in an opening in
the side of a slanted stone area
and looked out.
And of course, I had no
idea what I was viewing.
>>NOORY: Did you
know it was Mars?
>> BUCHANAN: No, I didn't.
We never know what
the target is.
And so you know,
I saw things out.
And the sun was out.
It was extremely cold.
Cold wind.
>>NOORY: Could have been the
desert here, on this planet.
>> BUCHANAN: Yes, but it was.
Different it was strange.
I found out later
the Sedona region,
the pictures of that were still
were still secret and not out
to the public yet.
>>NOORY: Did you did you see
via remote viewing the face
on Mars?
>> BUCHANAN: No I was
at this thing-- well,
I saw something off to the side.
And I was at a place and saw
the detailed picture of that
before it came
out to the public.
All of a sudden I looked
and I thought, hey,
wait a minute,
that's what I saw.
And I remembered
what I saw, and I
looked on this overhead
picture, and everything
was right in the place.
And it dawned on me,
hey, I stood on Mars.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>> BUCHANAN: This is called
perfect site integration
or bilocation.
And fascinating phenomenon.
And like I say, you can't
tell that you're not there.
So in a very real way, I
stood on the surface of Mars
and experienced standing
on the surface of Mars.
Did you see any what you would
consider to be structures
that were made by some entity?
>> BUCHANAN: I saw some
pyramid-looking things.
No, everything was dead.
Everything was eroded
and such as that.
But I saw no life
anywhere there.
Now at the time, my monitor
had me go into the place
I was standing, and I found
living creatures there, yeah.
>>NOORY: What kind
of living creatures?
>> BUCHANAN: Sort of worm-like.
Large, but sort of worm-like.
>>NOORY: How big?
>> BUCHANAN: Larger than me.
>>NOORY: Worms larger than you?
Did they look more
animal than intelligent?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
They didn't seem
intelligent, yeah.
But one of the things
about remote viewing
is that you adjust to the
size of where you are.
So I could have been
the size of a pinhead
and they would look
larger than me.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Like dinosaurs.
>> BUCHANAN: So there's no
real way to make an accurate
measurement.
>>NOORY: But they were alive.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How many of them?
>> BUCHANAN: Many, yeah.
All in one place.
But that's what I saw.
>>NOORY: That would be an
eerie sight, wouldn't it?
>> BUCHANAN: It was very eerie,
because I was in perfect sight
integration and I was
right in there with them.
And yeah, it was pretty eerie.
Did you see anything, Lyn,
that would look like buildings
or other structures like that?
>> BUCHANAN: All
I saw was eroded--
when I was looking out, I saw
eroded hills and desolation out
there.
>>NOORY: Natural looking.
>> BUCHANAN: Pyramidal,
but natural looking.
Very pointed mountains, hills.
>>NOORY: Did they look like
they were made by something?
>> BUCHANAN: I didn't get that
impression at the time during
the session, but
could have been.
I don't know.
>>NOORY: Do other remote
viewers talk amongst each other
about what they've seen?
>> BUCHANAN: No.
In the military
we weren't allowed
to do that because that
would pollute each other.
But yeah, these
days, remote viewers
talk about what they found and
their experiences and all that.
>>NOORY: What seems
to be, nowadays,
the biggest subject
matter for remote viewing
to try to look at?
>> BUCHANAN: The biggest subject
matter these days is generally
police work, medical work,
and scientific research
and development.
>>NOORY: And when
you say police work,
what are they looking for?
>> BUCHANAN: Missing
children, missing evidence.
I did a study one time
for one police department
on drugs coming
across the border
to predict when the next
big shipment of drugs
would come across the border,
and exactly where and when.
It's very unusual to
send out the troops
on the word of a remote
viewer, but they actually did.
And they caught a
huge shipment of drugs
coming across the border at that
place, at that time predicted.
The chief of police
in that department,
scared him so bad that he
won't even talk to me anymore.
It scared him.
>>NOORY: I'm sure, Lyn, you
have seen all kinds of things.
You know, getting back
to Ingo Swann's work
on the far side of the
moon, how about you?
Have you ever taken a
glance at the far side?
What have you seen?
>> BUCHANAN: Buildings and--
>>NOORY: So you
basically corroborated
what Ingo says he saw.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
Now like I say, I
didn't know what
I was viewing at the time
I was tasked with it.
I always try to be
blind in my tasking.
>>NOORY: So you don't know
if it's the moon, Earth.
You just don't know.
>> BUCHANAN: Moon or Manhattan.
I have no idea.
>>NOORY: Did it
look like Manhattan?
>> BUCHANAN: Not at all.
All right.
Describe what it
looked like for us.
It looked like totally
desolate, darkish brownish gray.
>>NOORY: Like abandoned?
Nobody there anymore?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah, but
there were lights in these
structures.
And the structures were
not like they are on Earth.
>>NOORY: They weren't
high rise buildings?
>> BUCHANAN: They were vertical,
but they weren't high rise
buildings, no.
They were industrial-looking.
If you've ever looked at one
of these oil refineries that
has the towers, that has the
cat walks around them and all
that, it looked more like that.
>>NOORY: But clearly they
looked like they were made.
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: Of course, we
don't know whom, right?
You didn't see any ETs or
any UFOs on the far side?
>> BUCHANAN: Not there, no.
>>NOORY: What do you
mean by not there?
Sounds like you saw
it somewhere else.
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
There are places on Earth
where the ETs have places,
and we viewed those.
And yeah, I've seen humans
working with ETs and so forth.
>>NOORY: You've seen how
many different groups of ETs?
>> BUCHANAN: In the
remote viewing, several.
There's not us and them.
Everybody says, well,
what do they want?
Well, they want something
different from what they want
and from what they want.
And so there's us and
them and them and them.
And each one is here with
their own different agenda.
>>NOORY: We've always
been told, Lyn,
that there are Alien
Greys, the Nordics--
they look like us--
reptilians, praying
mantis types.
Have you seen
these types of ETs?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And not in remote viewing, OK?
But after service I was asked
to do a study on the comparison
and contrasting of
ET psychic abilities
with human psychic abilities.
I was given access
to many things
that the public will probably
never see in order to do this.
And I came up with basically
you can cut all of them
into four groups.
And now the grays will be
in each of the four groups,
the insectoids will be in each
of the four groups and all
in, because there
are grays there
and there are greys
there and all in.
It turned out they had
friendly and unfriendly.
And in each of
those two groups you
had psychic and non-psychic.
And from the
documentation that I got,
I found out that the friendly,
non-psychic ones come here
for trade.
>>NOORY: What do they want?
>> BUCHANAN: Stuff
>>NOORY: Elements, everything.
>> BUCHANAN: Everything.
>>NOORY: Gold, probably.
>> BUCHANAN: And I know
the guy who's in charge
of the technology transfer.
And he was laughing one day.
He said, they're not
inventive people.
Their culture is
old and all that.
They're not inventive people.
And he said, we get
stuff from them.
We play with it.
We find all these different
enhancements for it.
And he said, these days,
we're trading them their stuff
back to them, and they're
glad to get it in new ways.
>>NOORY: And they may not
even know it was theirs.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
But anyway, they're
here for trade.
The non-psychic, non-friendly
ones don't come here.
They don't like us.
>>NOORY: Are they--
>> BUCHANAN: They're
all different types.
>>NOORY: Are they evil?
>> BUCHANAN: I don't know.
They don't like us.
Are they warring creatures?
>> BUCHANAN: I would
imagine some of them are.
But all of the
different groups will
fall into that one category.
The friendly psychic
ones want to help
us develop our abilities.
>>NOORY: And when you say
friendly psychic ones,
what do you mean
by that exactly?
>> BUCHANAN: They have psychic
ability and they're friendly
to us.
>>NOORY: OK.
And they probably remote view
us as we remote view them?
>> BUCHANAN: I'm sure
they do, probably.
And they want to help us
develop our abilities.
And the non-friendly
psychic ones
want us wiped off the planet.
They want us dead,
period, to the last human.
And I couldn't figure out
what the motivation is
for each of those two groups.
There was one
event that happened
that finally made it click.
This one event, a UFO came up
and abducted these guys that
were out camping at a lake.
They watched it come up,
and it got over them,
and then they were--
>>NOORY: They froze.
>> BUCHANAN: They froze.
>>NOORY: Who wouldn't?
>> BUCHANAN: And it well.
It dawned on me from
that, and after reading
all this other
stuff, that group has
more psychic power than we do,
but they have no range at all.
We can see across the
universe as easily
as we can see across the room.
>>NOORY: Why do some of
these groups hate us?
What's the hate?
>> BUCHANAN: Well, the
conclusion that I came
to on this study was that as
we get out into the universe,
we have the psychic ability,
we have the creativity,
we have all that.
And we can be a powerful
force in the universe.
And that's why
those friendly to us
want us to develop that ability.
And that's why those unfriendly
to us don't want us out there.
And so this is my
conclusion, and that's
what I wrote in the report.
>>NOORY: Lyn, you have
looked at some disasters,
all kinds of disasters.
What are some of those
that you have glanced at?
>> BUCHANAN: We had a
guy come into the unit,
and he was brand new.
He had never seen this before.
And this is on a Thursday.
And the director
said, OK, describe
what's going to be in the
headlines in the newspaper
over the weekend, and bring
it in Friday, tomorrow.
And so we brought it in.
And I brought in
that there was going
to be a massive nuclear
meltdown at a nuclear plant.
We came back on Monday
and I was wrong.
It wasn't in the
paper and all that.
And it was the following
two or three days
later that Iceland
started saying
we're getting radioactive
cloud coming from Russia.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>> BUCHANAN: And so--
and this is the nature of the
military remote viewing, OK?
I had predicted Chernobyl.
I had described it in detail.
>>NOORY: You even took a look
at Chernobyl by remote viewing.
>> BUCHANAN: Yes.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- April 26, 1986.
The Ukraine is seen in
this Russian documentary.
Reactor number four at
Chernobyl explodes and burns,
pouring radioactive material
into the atmosphere.
31 people died on the spot.
Children were found
to be most vulnerable.
In the days after the
explosion, a cloud
of radioactivity that
started out 200 times
stronger than the Hiroshima
and Nagasaki bombs
spread across Russia and Europe.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Lyn, what an absolute
disaster Chernobyl was.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And I saw and described
it a week-- well,
days before it happened.
But this is the nature of
the military remote viewing.
I was given a zero
for that because I
was tasked with what will be in
the headlines of the Washington
newspapers that weekend.
And it was the following
week before it came to the US
that there was ever a meltdown.
>>NOORY: You missed
it by a week, Lyn.
>> BUCHANAN: I
missed it by a week,
which gave me a zero because
I didn't do what I was tasked
to do.
I accurately described it.
But this was the nature of
the military remote viewing.
We did what we
were tasked to do.
>>NOORY: And what a disaster.
It's still plaguing this planet.
Still plaguing.
And you know what?
And God forbid with
Fukushima and Chernobyl,
and who knows what else
is going to be out there.
But of everything you've looked
at in your remote viewing
career, what would be that one
episode that you'll just never
forget?
>> BUCHANAN: Which one
of the one episode?
There were several.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I'm
sure there were many.
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah,
there were many.
I think the one episode
that I will not forget--
Russia was developing
a particle-beam weapon.
There were questions
about the weapon
and some of the
questions were about what
happens inside the beam.
And of course, you
stick any instrument
into the beam of a
particle-beam weapon,
you've got a thousandth
of a second and it's gone.
>>NOORY: It is.
>> BUCHANAN: And so somebody
had the bright idea of let's get
a remote viewer or to step into
the beam and see what happens?
Everybody kind of backed
off, and I thought--
>>NOORY: All right,
I'll give it a try.
>> BUCHANAN: That's neat.
Yeah.
And so I volunteered for it.
And I stepped into the--
I got the bilocation
event so that I
couldn't tell I wasn't
there, stepped into the beam.
The word indescribable,
indescribably beautiful.
I have never seen
anything that I could even
imagine to be that beautiful.
>>NOORY: In the beam.
>> BUCHANAN: In the beam.
And inside the beam,
the beam is so powerful
that even time is messed
up inside the beam.
And I was able to see forward
and backward inside the beam,
but the beam itself was just--
I can't describe it.
>>NOORY: Was it godlike to you?
>> BUCHANAN: No.
It was-- probably I guess
the best description
for it would be
totally psychedelic.
>>NOORY: Without the LSD.
>> BUCHANAN: Without the LSD.
>>NOORY: Have you ever had
a spiritual remote viewing
session?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
One of my fortes.
All remote viewers have
strengths and weaknesses.
One of my strengths is
accessing people mentally.
And so many times I was tasked
to do either personality
profiles or plans and
intentions of foreign leaders.
Now plans and
intentions, you get in
and you find their
plans and intentions.
Personality profile, you sort
of access them, stand back,
and describe their personality,
their actions, and all that.
And I had been doing
these foreign leaders,
and it was wearing me
down and everything.
And so I went into the
director, and I said,
look, give me Mother Teresa.
Give me Bozo the Clown.
>>NOORY: Jesus, anybody, right?
>> BUCHANAN: Anything, yeah.
And of course he said,
hey, you're a soldier.
Do your job.
Suck it up and go back
to work, you know?
The following week I got
another personality profile,
and accessed the person.
And my first words
were, whatever
evil you think this guy
did, he didn't do it.
This is one of the good guys.
>>NOORY: And who
was the good guy?
>> BUCHANAN: I did the session.
By the end of the
session, my entire summary
was, whatever evil you think
this guy did, he didn't do it.
And the monitor
opened the envelope
to see who the personality was.
The director had handwritten
on a sheet of paper Jesus.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>> BUCHANAN: And this was one
of those bilocation events.
And I stood there in front
of this small Jewish man,
did the personality profile.
>>NOORY: Did you witness
the physical Jesus?
>> BUCHANAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: You did.
What did he look like?
>> BUCHANAN: To my surprise,
he was wearing a business suit.
And I never have
figured that one out.
But he was small.
>>NOORY: Would you
think it was Jesus?
>> BUCHANAN: No, I didn't,
because he was wearing
a business suit.
I thought, who is this?
Was he talking?
>> BUCHANAN: No.
He never spoke to me, but he
looked around at me and smiled.
And in that smile,
I just I realized
that this guy was better than
I will ever be in my life.
And I suddenly had
the understanding
that no matter how much bad I
had ever seen, he's seen worse.
No matter how much good I've
ever done, he's seen better,
and that he accepted
me for being there.
>>NOORY: Lyn, you've looked
at a lot of events that
have occurred on this planet.
One that has always puzzled me,
of course, was Saddam Hussein.
Were you ever channeled
and tasked to look for him?
>> BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah,
constantly during the Gulf War.
And we tracked him.
He didn't have a chance.
We knew every day what
he was going to do
the next day and all that.
>>NOORY: And this was
while he was hiding?
>> BUCHANAN: Before that, even.
>>NOORY: Even before that.
>> BUCHANAN: All along.
And one of the things
that always got to me
was that when we drove
him out of Kuwait,
they had tasked us with the
direction they should push.
I had found in my session
if you push him north,
he's going to burn all
those wells as he goes.
>>NOORY: As he did.
>> BUCHANAN: And I said,
push him west and then north,
where he won't have a
way to burn those wells.
>>NOORY: Well, he
burned the wells.
>> BUCHANAN: He
There were many, many times.
And in my book, I
started off by saying
Hussein was not a bad person.
He was very religious.
He was just crazy as bed bugs.
He really believed that God
wanted him to rule the world
and that he should
kill anybody who got
in the way of God's intentions.
And he was crazy.
>>NOORY: And when we went
into Iraq the second time,
did you find him
hiding in that hole?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
I didn't do the viewing to know
where the hole was, but yeah.
>>NOORY: Is that
how we found it?
>> BUCHANAN: Yeah.
Oh, who was it did a project
and got several remote viewers,
and they found--
they described the hole.
They described everything.
And I think that they
actually found where it was.
I didn't share in that.
But I think they actually
found where it was.
>>NOORY: Lyn, as we wrap
this up, a lot of people
are feeling that something
big is happening,
is about to happen.
We don't know what it is.
We don't know if it's good.
We don't know if it's bad.
As a remote viewer, can
you shed any light on that?
>> BUCHANAN: I have been
tasked with the future, yeah.
And what I keep finding,
even though I never
know what the target is, what
I keep finding is that there is
going to be basically a massive
die-off of the human race,
that the end result will
be good for the human race.
>>NOORY: How can that be good?
>> BUCHANAN: Because what
comes out of all of that--
the survivors, the remnant--
is going to have better lives.
Basically the
cities will be sort
of emptied out
and just decaying.
>>NOORY: Is that the way
we want to live, Lyn?
>> BUCHANAN: We'll have all
the scientific advances--
or they will have all
the scientific advances.
But it'll be more
an agrarian society
where people are totally
self-sufficient, where
there's basically no needs.
And so the survivors, the
remnants will have a good life.
>>NOORY: Now did you see
what got us to that point
that something happened?
Was there a calamity?
>> BUCHANAN: Pretty much.
It was caused.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Like what?
An asteroid?
What would have done that?
>> BUCHANAN: No, it was--
>>NOORY: Manmade?
>> BUCHANAN: Manmade, yeah.
An intentional die-off.
>>NOORY: Remote
viewers have always
told me that time is
very difficult to predict
when they remote view.
They don't know time so
they can't predict dates.
In this particular
case, can you?
>> BUCHANAN: In this
particular case, I was tasked,
I found out later, with moving
to the year 2050 and describing
it.
>>NOORY: 2050.
So that's the time period.
>> BUCHANAN: That's the
time I viewed, I think.
>>NOORY: Well, we've
got a little time.
We've got a little breathing
room here to get ready.
Lyn, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>> BUCHANAN: Hey, any time.
And thank you for inviting me.
I've always enjoyed
talking to you.
>>NOORY: Remote viewing.
It's an incredible
area for you to pave
a path for your own
direction and life.
And I recommend that
you give it a try,
because it's much more than
just looking for lost car keys.
It could really
shape your future.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."